# Brazil Seed Transfer Zones
Seed Transfer Zones (STZs) based on 25 climatic, edaphic, and topographic variables to support seed sourcing for ecological restoration across Brazil.

Low-resolution online application available at: https://mateus-silva.shinyapps.io/stz-br/

## Abstract
Ecosystem restoration is a key strategy to address the interconnected biodiversity, climate, and inequality crises. In Brazil, scaling up restoration through direct seeding is gaining momentum but a national framework to match seed sources and planting sites is still lacking, undermining restoration long-term success. We developed the first Seed Transfer Zones (STZs) for Brazil using 25 environmental variables and climate projections. STZs were co-designed with Redário, a national coalition composed of Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities and other stakeholders engaged in the native seed supply chain. We assessed how STZs may shift under future climate scenarios by 2100, and we discussed implications considering restoration demand and seed supply capacity across zones. We identified 19 STZs, whose borders are aligned with Brazil’s six major ecoregions (Amazon, Cerrado, Atlantic Forest, Caatinga, Pantanal, and Pampa). Overlaying  the STZs with the legal restoration deficit (19.4 Mha) and Redário’s seed supplier network revealed key regions where seed supply is unlikely to meet demand. Additionally, future climate projections suggest substantial reshaping of STZs, with 28-56% of Brazil’s land area experiencing a mismatch between current and future seed zones. Brazil’s first STZs offer a scalable framework to guide seed sourcing for restoration in the country, aligning supply with demand and future-proofing projects to deliver lasting benefits for biodiversity, climate, and society.
